---
layout: post
title: Week 13
---
### **_Thoughts on Tom Callaway's [Musings on Open Source Software Business Models](https://spot.livejournal.com/327801.html)_**  
Callaway first describes some open source business models and then essentially explains the advantages of open source software. He uses Red Hat as an example - "the most successful company (by financials) in this space, Red Hat, is not open core. Having been at Red Hat since 2001, I think the primary key to our success has been that we have deeply invested in delivering value to our customers and to our open source communities." And I completely agree with Callaway's arguments: "Doing proprietary software presents minimal risk to a company, but I would argue that the rewards are also minimized. Working with open source software in a healthy manner requires profits to be invested into the code in a similar manner, but you also benefit from the investments of others to that same code (customers, partners, even competitors). I would also argue that customers of entirely open source offerings are happier and more engaged with their vendors, and that companies offering entirely open source offerings do more to continue innovating and creating value for their customers, out of necessity." Through the success of Red Hat, Callaway explains the disadvantages of the lock-in model of proprietary software and why customers could pay Red Hat to maintain it. The success of Red Hat should be an eye-opener for many because it is a perfect example. Many people, including myself, wondered how open source is profitable because essentially, business is all about making money. But as Callaway mentions with open source, they will benefit significantly over time and like he said, I hope that with time, open source code will emerge to replace the  proprietary bits in the open core model.

### **_Thoughts on [8 advantages of using open source in the enterprise](https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2015/1/top-advantages-open-source-offers-over-proprietary-solutions)_**  

#### Would you want to work in a company that only produced open source software? Why or why not? What would your dream job be? How would you like to see the business of software production in ten years?
I think I would like to work at a company that does both (not that I wouldn't mind working at a company that produced open source software only). It would definitely be a plus point if the company produced open source software or allowed their employees to work on open source projects. As of now, I don't really have a dream job. I have yet to find one. In ten years, I hope to see the growth of open source. I hope more and more companies realize the benefits and produce open source software instead of making their software proprietary.   

### **_[Humanitarian Projects](https://opensource.com/tags/humanitarian)_**  
The humanitarian project, _[Half of the world’s languages are dying. Should we save them?](https://opensource.com/article/17/7/half-world-languages-dying-save-them)_, interested me the most. The project's goal is to save languages as "there are currently around 7,000 languages being used today, with one language dying every two weeks." I found this project to be interesting because I also think this is very important and can personally relate to it. Although I was born in the U.S., I grew up in India for a few years and had the privilege to learn how to speak in my native language, Malayalam. Even though I do not have any trouble communicating, I unfortunately do not know how to read or write in my native language. There are many families that came from the same state as my family and their children were born and raised in the U.S. However, their children are mostly exposed to English (in schools, etc.). The only time they ever come in contact with Malayalam is with their parents at home or at some event where all Indian families gather (which does not happen very often). Hence, their children cannot speak, read or write Malayalam at all. Some can understand Malayalam but they only respond back in English. Others do not understand and so, their parents speak to them in English. As a result, they lose that part of their culture and cannot communicate with their own relatives that do not know English. As you can see, our native language is slowly disappearing from the Indian community here in the U.S. I'm assuming that the future generations (if they grown up here) will completely lose touch with Malayalam. Now, Malayalam is not a dying or an endangered language in the world (he provides a list of endangered languages in India: [197 languages](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_endangered_languages_in_India)), but the reason I shared this is because I thought it is similar to one of the ways languages can be lost overtime. Nonetheless, I really think the goal of this project is very valuable and important.    

### **_Project Progress_**  
On Nov 26: I created another [issue](https://github.com/Bhupesh-V/30-seconds-of-cpp/issues/452) to work on implementing the reverse_copy method for algorithm.   
On Nov 28: The maintainer assigned me [this issue](https://github.com/Bhupesh-V/30-seconds-of-cpp/issues?q=assignee%3Arajsukanya+is%3Aopen).    
The maintainer also [merged my first pull request](https://github.com/Bhupesh-V/30-seconds-of-cpp/pull/446) and thanked me for my contribution!    
On Dec 3: I created a [pull request](https://github.com/Bhupesh-V/30-seconds-of-cpp/pull/457) after implementing the reverse_copy method.  

### **_Week 13 Summary:_** 
Read:
* [Musings on Open Source Software Business Models](https://spot.livejournal.com/327801.html)  
* [8 advantages of using open source in the enterprise](https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2015/1/top-advantages-open-source-offers-over-proprietary-solutions)  

I made two more blog edit contributions and another wikipedia contribution.  
<!--
The second article is intended to convince CIO's about the importance of open source for companies. What are your reactions to this article?
-->
