---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---
### **_Comment on your experience with the Git activity that you did in class. Was it useful? Was it confusing? Did you have time to finish? Did you have merge conflicts? Were you able to resolve them?_**  
  I found this git activity very useful because it was my first time working on something with a group of people at the same time. I have only pushed and committed changes on school projects by myself before and because I was working by myself, I did not experience any kind of trouble. However through this activity, I learned about merge conflicts and how to resolve them. By the time I was going to push my changes to the remote repository, my teammates had already made changes and so, I used the command _git pull_ to update the local version of the repository from the remote repository and then, I was able to push my changes. I am very glad we did this activity because I learned something new and was able to experience what it is like when multiple people are working on a project simultaneously. 
  
### **_What are your reactions to the reading, [A Beginner‘s Very Bumpy Journey Through The World of Open Source][link]?_**  
  I enjoyed reading _A Beginner‘s Very Bumpy Journey Through The World of Open Source_ by Shubheksha because I could relate to her fears. Although I have not worked on an open source project before, I recently started thinking of ways I can contribute to open source. In an earlier post (Week 2), I stated some suitable choices for my first contributions. But as I was deciding, I was hesitant to choose options that were too involving. I was actually afraid because I feel like I do not know enough. I am afraid to ask questions because it might seem stupid or silly to others and they might feel like it's a waste of their time. However reading Shubheksha's experience made me feel better, especially when she says, _"It’s okay to not know everything, and take one step at a time to learn something new."_ I realize that learning can be a very slow process, especially for a person like me. But if I do not do anything, then I will be staying at that same level of knowledge. Like Shubheksha said, I need to increase my skills and knowledge one step at a time, and I could only do this if I ask questions and try to do things that seems a bit challenging, only then will I learn. 

### **_In the Blog Editing Activity, write what you did and how this procedure is different from the one described in the slides._**  
  I edited one of my classmate's blog and their fixed spelling errors. The procedure described in the slides is different because you have to inform the maintainers that you are going to fix a certain issue and by doing this, it reduces the number of merge conflicts.

### **_Week 4 Summary:_**  
  We learned how to collaborate on a project using a shared remote repository with multiple people using git as well as what the structure of a project is. 

[link]: https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/a-beginners-very-bumpy-journey-through-the-world-of-open-source-4d108d540b39/
