---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---
### **_Project:_**    
I finally found a project to make my first contribution to. The project I chose was [codezilla](https://github.com/Asiatik/codezilla). This is the project I did my project evaluation on last week. Throughout this week, I was looking for a project in which I can make a documentation contribution to instead of writing code. Initially, I couldn’t find any project that needed documentation changes and so, I moved on to find projects in C++ because it is the only programming language I am familiar with. Then I remembered that codezilla contains algorithms implemented in several programming languages. I thought I can search for an algorithm that does not have a C++ implementation of it yet. As I was searching through the algorithms, I found that the readme files have some spelling and grammatical mistakes. I decided to make this my first contribution.  

### **_Guest speaker: Bill Reyner_**  
Bill Reyner, the Associate Director and Vice President at FactSet, came to our class on October 17. He talked about open source in a corporate setting. He also explained the benefits of open source, especially when you want to write code for a problem that is already solved. It would be extremely helpful because you don't want to waste time trying to figure out something that has a solution - making it open source would save you the trouble. I also realize that more and more people are encouraging software to be open source. Bill Reyner mentioned that contributing to open source projects is encouraged at FactSet and they have made projects open source because initially it was component of the main part they were working on, but later they decided not to focus on that part/in that direction. Although they weren't using it, it was still useful; hence, they made it open source because the project had a special meaning and value to some people that working on it. I thought that it was very thoughtful because not only are you helping others, but it also makes you feel good as you have contributed to the community.  

### **_Week 8 Summary:_**  
I did not do much this week, other than searching for open source projects. It took me a while to come to my final decision because like I said earlier, I wasn't able to find a project where I can make a documentation contribution. But I am really glad that I can contribute to the project that I did my project evaluation on. I wish I thought of it sooner. 
