---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---
### **Thoughts on _The Cathedral and the Bazaar by Eric Raymond_**  
When I first read the title [**_The Cathedral and the Bazaar_**](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html), it intrigued me because the cathedral and the bazaar are complete opposites and I was curious as to what is the connection between these polar opposites. It was quite an enjoyable read as I learned that the Linux community resembled a noisy and busy bazaar. Usually, most people would think that it will be difficult to make progress in that kind of environment. However, the success of Linux proved the unthinkable. Raymond explains how Linux came to be and his own experience in creating a project using the bazaar style. Some concepts that interested me the most were:  
* _"Good programmers know what to write. Great ones know what to rewrite (and reuse)."  
Raymond explains "An important trait of the great ones is constructive laziness. They know that you get an A not for effort but for results...". This might seem obvious but it is also something that is easily overlooked because 'laziness' has a negative connotation to it. However, Raymond explains how "constructive laziness" is put to good use and how it is more productive. We might think of the phrase 'A for Effort'; however, it is more important to create results and make progress, which reminds me of 'Work smarter, not harder'. 

* _"Given a large enough beta-tester and co-developer base, almost every problem will be characterized quickly and the fix obvious to someone."_  
This proves that it is very important to work together with others because they might find a problem or see something that you missed. People think in different ways; hence, it will only benefit you when you get the opinions of others in case you simply overlooked something or did not think of a certain edge case. 

* _"Perfection (in design) is achieved not when there is nothing more to add, but rather when there is nothing more to take away."_  
This definition of perfection impressed me because I have never thought of it in this way. I thought that perfection is hard to achieve because there is always room for perfection. We all try to reach perfection but there will always be more ways to add bells and whistles to anything you are working on. Because of that, I used to think that it is kind of impossible or rare to achieve perfection.       

### **_Project Progress_**  
Last week, I decided on the project that I am going to make my first contribution to: [codezilla](https://github.com/Asiatik/codezilla). The reason being is that I found some spelling and grammar mistakes on their readme file for the sorting algorithm, [heapsort](https://github.com/Asiatik/codezilla/issues/451). I wanted my first contribution to be documentation related and I found one on codezilla. Not only that, codezilla contains many implementations of algorithms in different programming languages - one of which is C++. C++ is the only programming language I am familiar with, which is also another reason why I decided to work on this project. This week, I fixed the mistakes in that readme.md file and made a [pull request](https://github.com/Asiatik/codezilla/pull/465) but it needs at least two approving reviews to merge those changes. One of my concerns is that the community of this project is not as active as it used to be. There are many new issues that were created recently (in the month of October). The last pull request was made on October 6th and merged on October 7th. However, there are many pull requests that still needs reviewing and are still waiting. This concerns me. Although the community is not as active as I wish it would be, I decided to work on this project because the average amount of time that pull requests remained un-answered was 2.7 days. But no new pull requests have been merged since October 7th and there are many that are still waiting to be reviewed. I hope I would not have to wait long before they merge my pull request.  

### **_Week 9 Summary:_**  
I made a contribution to OpenStreet Map and I also finished reading _The Cathedral and the Bazaar_.  
