---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---
### **_The article [Finding a project to contribute to][link] has a great amount of information and advice. It also has links to other webpages that help you in finding projects. Explore these links and comment on which might prove to be useful, and whether they have helped you to narrow down your search._**  
* [First Contributions][first]
  This site has a lot of options to choose from and we can add filters (such as _first-timers_, _good first issue_, _science_, etc.) to narrow down the choices. I found [Contribute to Open Source][open], which I think is something relatively simple and very useful. "The goal of this project is to empower you to contribute code to open source projects on Github by teaching you the mechanics of the process in an interactive experience." The mission is clearly stated and I think it is good practice. 

### **_Make some comments about all of this git and GitHub stuff you learned about this week. Hard? Easy? Confusing? Useful?_** 
  All of the things we learned about git and Github are extremely useful. Initially, it was confusing because it was my first time forking and cloning a repository and then pushing changes from my local machine to my fork and then to upstream. But with practice, I was able to get the hang of it and that is where the git activities were of extreme help. Through the git activities, I am able to practice what I learned. While learning it, it made sense and I thought I can do it with ease. However when I had to do it by myself, it did not come to me that easily. I often missed steps or was not sure what the next step was. I really appreciated that the professor created [Contribution Workflow][contribution]. I referred back to it often when I got lost and was not sure of the order of the steps I needed to take. Hence, learning and putting those things into practice through the git activities were very helpful. 

### **_Week 5 Summary:_**
* Contributed to Open Street Map
* Worked on [Git Workflow Activity][another link]

[link]: https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/#finding-a-project-to-contribute-to
[another link]: https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/github-workflow-activity-01
[contribution]: https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/github-workflow-activity-01/blob/master/contribution-workflow.md
[first]: https://firstcontributions.github.io/
[open]: https://github.com/danthareja/contribute-to-open-source/issues
