---
layout: post
title: Week 12
---
### **_Thoughts on [Election fraud: Is there an open source solution?](https://opensource.com/article/19/9/voting-fraud-open-source-solution?)_**  
In class, we previously discussed about this after Karen Sandler had visited our class. She talked about her defibrillator and because of that, she realized the importance of making open source software. We then discussed how not only medical devices could be affected by this, but also elections because most voting systems are proprietary. Not only that, most voting machines are old; hence it can definitely be vulnerable. I was surprised that "there are reports of machines misbehaving in this manner after almost every election." I knew that voter fraud occurs, however I did not know this happens so often. Although fixing this problem requires a tremendous amount of work and can be an extremely slow process, I am very glad that they are working to change this. As this article mentions, "...one of the most important aspects of public technology is that it must be entirely trustworthy." In my opinion, this is one of the key points in the article. Like I have mentioned in the past, all software should be robust whether that is on medical devices, cars, voting machines, etc. Software can be robust by making it open source like how [_The Cathedral and the Bazaar_](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html) explains the more eyes, the better.   

### **_Project Progress_**    
On Nov 14: I created an [issue](https://github.com/Bhupesh-V/30-seconds-of-cpp/issues/445) to fix grammar mistakes in [insert.md](https://github.com/Bhupesh-V/30-seconds-of-cpp/blob/master/unordered_map/insert.md) for unordered_map. On the same day, the maintainer [assigned me this issue](https://github.com/Bhupesh-V/30-seconds-of-cpp/issues/assigned/rajsukanya).  
On Nov 17: I created a [pull request](https://github.com/Bhupesh-V/30-seconds-of-cpp/pull/446) after fixing the grammar mistakes.  
The maintainer has not merged my pull request as of now, however I am glad this project is more active than my previous one. Now, I am looking for another issue to work on. I would like to find something more involving this time. I don't mind fixing documentation mistakes, but I would like to try to implement something. Since this project is in C++, I think it's time I try to make a coding contribution.  

### **_Summary of Week 13:_**      
I made three more contributions to Wikipedia. Last week, I randomly searched through some Wikipedia pages and found a few spelling and grammar errors I could fix. But it was more time-consuming to find pages in this way because some didn't have any mistakes and I would continue to search for another page. However this week, I decided to look up TV shows that I previously watched and/or am currently watching. Surprisingly, I found grammatical and spelling mistakes on the first page I looked at. Then it became easier for me to make more contributions.   
