---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---
### **_What have you learned so far with respect to these statements in [10 things you should know about open source before you use it][link]?_**  
* #### **It's not always free**  
  I was under the misconception that open source software meant that it was always free of charge. I did not know that companies could make profits from this and how charges may apply to special features. I have also never used or heard about open source software that charged money before, which led me to believe that open source software is free. 
* #### **You don't have to be an expert to use it & Open source is not just for programmers**
  I put these two facts together because I initially believed that open source was for people that were super smart ("uber-geeks" like how the reading states) and for those who had knowledge about software. It never occurred to me that literally anyone can use it. 
* #### **Freeware and shareware are not the same as open source**  
  I was not familiar with the terms “freeware” and “shareware” before attending this class. And before I also did not know that the source code had to be freely available in order for software to be open source. 
* #### **You're probably already using it**  
  Before taking this class, I did not know much about open source and it never occurred to me to search if I am using any until now. It turns out I have! When I took introduction to computer science, we were first introduced to Notepad++ and we used that text editor to code. I am also using Adblock Plus for a while and I had no idea that it was an open source browser extension until now. It is actually quite surprising to know that I have used more open source software than I thought I had.

[link]: https://www.techrepublic.com/blog/10-things/10-things-you-should-know-about-open-source-before-you-use-it/
