---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---
### **_Thoughts on "[Makers and Takers](https://dri.es/balancing-makers-and-takers-to-scale-and-sustain-open-source)" by Dries Buytaert_**
The author defines Makers as those "who purposely and meaningfully invests in the maintenance of Open Source software, i.e. by making engineering investments, writing documenation, fixing bugs, organizing events, and more." Essentially, they help _make_ the open source projects. On the other hand, "Takers monetize Open Source projects without contributing back to those projects." The main difference between them is that "Makers directly invest in growing both their business and the Open Source project. Takers are solely focused on growing their business and let others take care of the Open Source project they rely on."  

The author explains how Takers hurt Makers and I found this interesting:  
**"_Takers harm Open Source projects. An aggressive Taker can induce Makers to behave in a more selfish manner and reduce or stop their contributions to Open Source altogether. Takers can turn Makers into Takers._"**  
I understand why this happens but the fact that "_Takers can turn Makers into Takers._" concerns me because it's the sad reality, especially when others (in this case, the Takers) reap the benefits of your hard work (the Makers). This describes the main problem because obviously, everyone would want to receive the benefits (no one would want to be on the losing end). The author also explains this in the Prisoner's Dilemma example as well - "both companies use their **"best individual strategy" (be a Taker, not a Maker)**, they produce an equilibrium that yields the worst possible result for the group: the Open Source project will suffer..." I believe this is the main problem because there is no balance. Takers contribute the least but they receive the most benefits. 

The author provides suggestions for scaling and sustaining Open Source:  
**Suggestion 1: Don't just appeal to organizations' self-interest, but also to their fairness principles**  
**Suggestion 2: Encourage end users to offer selective benefits to Makers**  
**Suggestion 3: Experiment with new issues**  
I agree with all of her suggestions, especially suggestion 2. In the article, the author said, "Takers will be takers until they have an incentive to become Makers." The key word here is "_incentive_". I think this key word can help turn the situation around. The reason Makers even turn into Takers is because Takers benefit the most. However, if incentives are offered to Makers only, I believe it would prevent Makers from becoming Takers and it can also encourage Takers to become Makers, which would help open source overall (it is like a win-win situation). I also agree with suggestion 1 and 3 because appealing to the organizations' fairness principles and creating licenses like the Business Source License (BSL) will also help create a balance and encourage more people. Overall, I think all of the author's suggestions will certainly help the future of Open Source. 

### **_Exploring Wikipedia_**
The pages, [Contributing to Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contributing_to_Wikipedia#Getting_started) and [A Primer for Newcomers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:A_primer_for_newcomers), present a lot of information on how to contribute, edit, format and lists several guidelines, policies and basic rules.       
Here are **Wikipedia's Five Pillars**:  
1. Wikipedia is an encyclopedia  
2. Wikipedia requires a neutral point of view  
3. Wikipedia is free content that anyone can edit and distribute  
4. Wikipedians should always be polite to each other  
5. Wikipedia does not have firm rules  

Although these basic rules seem pretty straightforward, I think it is very useful that they explain these principles thoroughly on their page. It is sometimes very easy to overlook or forget the most simplest things, especially #2. We all have preferences and biases, however I personally think it can be challenging to write in an unbiased and impartial way in certain cases. Hence, these five pillars are very important to take note of. 
* I also learned that every wiki page contains a talk page, which is essentially a page where discussion takes place.    
* Wikipedia encourages people to ask questions and don't be afraid to do so. In my opinion, this is very important especially to newcomers because it proves that they are friendly and easy to interact with. 
* The pages are often lengthy because they provide a great deal of information. It is not hard to understand the content as it is thoroughly written; however, it is a lot to take in.   

### **_Project Progress_**  
On October 16th: I made an [issue](https://github.com/Asiatik/codezilla/issues/451) to fix some spelling and grammar mistakes    
On October 30th: I made a [pull request](https://github.com/Asiatik/codezilla/pull/465) after correcting the mistakes  
On October 31st: I opened a [new issue](https://github.com/Asiatik/codezilla/issues/466) to add documentation for the sorting algorithm, Radix Sort  
As I was exploring [codezilla](https://github.com/Asiatik/codezilla) to find something else I can contribute to, I found that the sorting algorithm, Radix sort, only contains the implementation of it. Hence, I decided to create a readme file explaining what radix sort is. However, I myself am not familiar with this sorting algorithm and so, I have started to read about radix sort. I also found that the comments in the implementations of the algorithms are not very detailed and clear. In addition, there are some data structures that are not implemented as of yet. These are a few things that I thought I can work on in the future after finishing the documentation for radix sort.   
As I have mentioned last week, the maintainers didn't merge my pull request and they still haven't done so this week as well. I made the pull request about five days ago, but I hope they merge it soon.  

### **_Summary of Week 10:_**  
I read:
* [Balancing Makers and Takers to scale and sustain Open Source](https://dri.es/balancing-makers-and-takers-to-scale-and-sustain-open-source)    
* [Contributing to Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contributing_to_Wikipedia#Getting_started)   
* [A Primer for Newcomers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:A_primer_for_newcomers)    
<!--
-->
