---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---
### **_The readings, [How to submit a contribution][how] & [Project Evaluation][project], will help guide you in what to look for in a project. Write about which projects you looked at, why you rejected them, which are still possible, and which look good to you._**  
* **[Github-Practice-For-All][github]**: I found this project on [Up For Grabs][up] and it looked good to me because it is friendly and for first-timers-only. Also, I thought I can practice my git skills. However, I could not find the license and if the project does not have a license, it is not open source. Also, "this project is no longer maintained due to lack of interests for side projects inside the community."  
* **[mountebank][m]**:
*

### **_Talk by Karen Sandler_**
Karen Sandler is the executive director of the Software Freedom Conservancy (SFC) and she visited our class on October 3rd to talk about software licenses and software freedom. I was most intrigued by her personal experience, which led her to become a strong advocate for open source software. Being diagnosed with a heart condition in her twenties, she needed to have a defibrillator implanted. However, the defibrillator unnecessarily shocked her as she experienced heart palpitations during her pregnancy. This incident opened her eyes to realize the importance of open source software because heart palpitations are normal during pregnancy, but her defibrillator was not equipped to deal with that situation. Sandler's personal experience made me realize the seriousness behind making software open source. Her doctors did not know what her defibrillator ran on and because defibrillators are usually given older people, she was an edge case. But nonetheless, software should be robust because it can cost people their lives and not only in the case of medical devices, but also vehicles, elections, etc. It was definitely an eye opener for me and drove home the point that proprietary software does not help anyone. Before taking this class, I only knew about some of the advantages of open source software; however through this class, I am realizing the significance of open source software. I am very grateful to Karen Sandler for taking the time to come to our class to share her knowledge and expertise with us.   

### **_Week 6 Summary:_**
* Contributed to Open Street Map  

[how]: https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/#how-to-submit-a-contribution  
[project]: http://www.compsci.hunter.cuny.edu/~sweiss/course_materials/csci395.86/activities_f19/project_evaluation_activity.pdf
[github]: https://github.com/RomchyFCC/Github-Practice-For-All
[up]: https://up-for-grabs.net/
[m]: https://github.com/bbyars/mountebank
