---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---
### **_Project Evaluation:_**  
* [Project Evaluation Activity Instructions][instructions]

My classmate and I worked on the project evaluation for OpenStreet Map this week. OpenStreetMap is both an open map and an open source software application. It creates and distributes free geographic data for the world. I chose to evaluate OpenStreet Map because I was first introducted to it on the first day of class and wanted to learn more about the project and its community. Through the [Project Evaluation Template][template], I was able to learn what types of questions and information I needed to look at to evaluate a project and its community. We need to check if the community is active and welcoming. This was important to me because I am still nervous about contributing. Hence, if the community is open to questions and welcoming, then it would be easier for me to ask questions more openly. It was encouraging to see that the community of OpenStreet Map was very welcoming and they even thank people for their contributions (regardless of the size of the contribution). I also learned that we can check if the project has any history of vulnerabilities in the National Vulnerability Database [here](https://nvd.nist.gov/). This was something I did not know about before. In terms of evaluating the project, our team had some trouble initially to find the source code. However, we later realized that OpenStreet Map is made up of multiple repositories. After choosing one of the repositories, finding the information that we needed was easy. It also took us some time to figure out who the maintainers of the project were. But after looking at many closed pull requests, we realized that the maintainers were the ones who merge the pull requests. Overall, it was a nice experience and because we worked on teams for our first project evaluation, evaluating projects on our own was more straightforward. For my individual project evaluation, I chose [codezilla](https://github.com/Asiatik/codezilla) and it contains a giant collection of algorithms and design patterns. Unlike OpenStreet Map, the community is not as welcoming and there was minimal dicussion about both issues and pull requests. Nonetheless through the in-class project evaluation activity, I now know what to look for when evaluating open source projects.  

### **_Week 7 Summary:_**
* Made contributions to OpenStreet Map 
* Worked on project evaluations

[template]: https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/project-evaluation-activity-01/blob/fall19/evaluation_template.md  
[instructions]: https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/project-evaluation-activity-01/blob/fall19/README.md  
