---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---
## **Blog #2:**    

### **_What types of contributions do you think are suitable choices for you to make as your first contributions to an open source project? What types of projects interest you and how do you see your relationship to them?_**  

#### Some suitable choices for my first contributions are to:
* Correct spelling and grammar mistakes in documentation
* Help write good documentation
* Build a glossary of technical terms
* Submit bug reports

I think it is fairly simple to fix any spelling and grammatical errors in documentations. It doesn't take much effort and is helpful at the same time. Also, writing good documentation is an important skill to have and I have only written documentation for small projects given in classes. By doing this, I can practice this skill as well as see how good documentation looks like for bigger projects. Creating a glossary of technical terms can be useful to anyone, especially beginners. I remember constantly looking things up when I first started (and even now) so, it would be convenient to have a glossary that one can refer back at all times. Lastly, encountering a bug can sometimes be messy and takes a lot of time in trying to find the exact bug. This can be extremely helpful to the programmer and, identifying the correct bug is another great skill to acquire.  

As for projects, I am open to any ideas. I don't have any particular interests at the moment. But as I explore, I hope to find something that catches my interest. 
